[AUDIO LOGO]
>>SCOTT WOLTER: What
evidence is there
that supports the
Templars' interactions
with ancient cultures
found around the world
and their mission to
reestablish the new Atlantis?
I'm Scott Wolter.
>>TIMOTHY HOGAN: And
I'm Timothy Hogan.
And this is Mysteries
of the Knights Templar.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>SCOTT: I think we've already
established that the Templar
mission to establish
the new Atlantis
was going to be
in North America.
>>TIMOTHY: Yeah.
So they had to map it.
They traveled the whole
site, and they left artifacts
all throughout it.
>>SCOTT: Possibly one of
the most important artifacts
in the world, in my opinion,
is the Kensington Runestone.
The world to this
day still thinks
that it's a hoax that was
perpetrated by the farmer who
found it back in 1898.
But we now know that
that's impossible.
And after taking a careful look
at it, from my perspective,
I followed the evidence
trail from Minnesota
where the artifact was found
all the way back to Europe.
And the evidence trail took
me right to the Cistercians,
the White monks and
the Knights Templar who
were also Cistercian.
>>TIMOTHY: Yes, the Templar
order really came out
of the Cistercian order.
Saint Bernard of Clairvaux was
the main architect of both.
He was an incredible scholar and
leader within the Roman church
at the time.
He was secretly a
practicing druid.
He was friends with
Rashi of Troyes
who was a very famous kabbalist.
And he took all this
information, infused it
into the Cistercian order, which
became the scholarly body that
began to translate and catalog
all the things that then
the Templar order was finding.
So the Templar order would go
out, find this information,
bring it back for
the Cistercians
to start to catalog.
>>SCOTT: Now remember when I
was talking about the Templars
finding those ossuaries with
the scrolls, the technology,
the gold, and the remains
of John the Baptist?
Well, later on in
the narrative, we
know that those original
Templar Knights with Hugh Dupin
took those scrolls
and the devices which
included a cryptex to decode
those encrypted documents.
And they gave them to Bernard.
And he was the one that
decoded them and learned
about other sites
around the world that
had been hidden
in those documents
and carefully encrypted
to protect them.
But Bernard was a scholar,
he was a charismatic leader,
and he was also--
secretly venerated
the sacred feminine.
>>TIMOTHY: Certainly,
Bernard, he was
a defender of the Albigensians.
The Albigensian Cathars,
which were, again,
those Gnostic families that
most of the Templar Knights
had come out of.
And the Albigensians
as Gnostics,
they venerated the feminine.
In fact, the goddess
Sophia, which
just meant wisdom, from which
the word philosophy comes from
or lover of wisdom, was
one of their main goals.
It represented the human
soul and its fall to matter.
And then its growth and
development and the freedom
to learn.
And ultimately,
different goddess figures
became aspects of this Sophia.
And even beyond that, the
Gnostic church at the time
had women leaders.
They had women priests, women
bishops, which they still
do to this day.
So there was a
very equal system,
and it was something
that Bernard of Clairvaux
was familiar with,
and he suddenly
tried to put that into the
Roman Catholic doctrine.
>>SCOTT: I've read
a lot about Bernard.
I've studied him
pretty extensively.
And I have to say,
in my opinion,
he is one of the most
important historical figures
in the history of the world.
And nobody knows who he is.
You say Templars, they
raise their hands.
Cistercians, who are they?
But you have to remember when he
joined the order with 30 family
members, including two of
his uncles, one of them being
the Grand Master, Hugh de
Payens, came from this region
that you're talking about,
these Burgundian families.
And he joined the order when
there was one abbey at Château.
And then he founded
two years later in 1115
the first daughter
Abbey of the Cistercians
at Clairvaux, hence
Bernard de Clairvaux.
But you have to
understand by the time
he died in 1153, the Cistercian
order had grown from one
Abbey when he joined to 300.
And then by the
time the Templars
were put down in 1307, a
little under 2 centuries later,
there were over 750
Abbeys across Europe
into the Holy Land, into
Scandinavia the British Isles.
I mean, think about
that meteoric growth.
It's an amazing success story
that nobody knows about.
And here's the other thing a
lot of people don't know about,
is that Bernard de
Clairvaux was the one who
wrote the charter for
the Knights Templar order
that was based on the Cistercian
charter of prayer and work.
>>TIMOTHY: Not only that,
but that original rule
of the Templar order was
composed of 72 articles.
And each of these
articles, quote,
"was said to correspond" to
one of the 72 cabalistic names
of God that he had learned
from Rashi of Troyes who
he was friends with.
And this brings us back
into this universality
of what the Templar
order was trying to do,
what Bernard of
Clairvaux recognized,
and this importance of
the sacred feminine.
So when the Templars
who recognize the divine
spark within everybody,
that everybody
was connected to
that divine source,
and that there was a
feminine aspect to this.
As they traveled
into the new world
and began to encounter
Indigenous tribes,
the Indigenous tribes had their
own version of this same idea.
So they were able to
connect very easily.
>>SCOTT: Well, they're
all matriarchal,
the Indigenous cultures
of North America.
And I've had a little
bit of experience
with the Algonquin
nation, specifically
the Ojibwe tribe and some
of their spiritual teachings
and some of their
rituals that they
practice their own form
of Freemasonry that's
called the Midewiwin.
And several years
ago, I was invited
to participate in
a Midewiwin sweat.
And it took time for me to earn
the right from the medicine man
to ask my questions.
And when my time
came and he said,
Scott, ask your questions.
And I said, well, I
would like to talk
to you a little bit about
the medieval Knights Templar.
And he looked at me
and he said, Oh, you
mean our blood brothers?
But basically, what
it boiled down to
is that when the Vikings
came over here starting
in the ninth century,
the late 1800s up
until the very beginning
of the 11th century,
they didn't get along with
the natives very well.
They just sort of
did what they wanted.
And if you don't like
what we're doing,
then screw you essentially.
But when the Templars came
over shortly after that,
they were completely different.
And they respected
the Indigenous people
because this was their home.
And they understood that.
And they bonded through
ritual because the Freemasonry
that the natives practiced
is the same as the Templars
practice.
So this is how they were able to
achieve a deep spiritual bond,
and through intermarriage.
And this is what allowed the
Templars to operate and pretty
much go wherever they
wanted for 400 years
before Columbus
"discovered" America.
>>TIMOTHY: "Discovered."
Yeah, the Templars protected
the sacred in all traditions.
And it made it
very easy for them
to associate with other groups.
One of the other groups in
North America that the Templars
encountered was the Mayans.
>>SCOTT: So I'm really
glad you brought that up,
because in this Cremona
document material,
not only do we have maps and
letters and encrypted messages,
but we do have artifacts.
One of those artifacts
is a brass seal that's
actually a navigation device.
Inside of it, there
are some metal inserts.
One of those metal inserts is
a small nail about this big.
And what's inscribed on it
is the word Quetzalcoatl.
>>TIMOTHY: Oh, Yeah.
>>SCOTT: You know
something about that?
>>TIMOTHY: Yeah,
Quetzalcoatl was
the deity, one of the main
deities of the Mayans.
I mean, he was the Osiris
figure, if you will.
He was the one who had
died and was raised.
He had set up civilization.
The Templars recognized
in this myth something
that they were familiar
with themselves.
And not only that, but the
Mayans and other Nahuatl
cultures, the Nahuatls included
the Aztecs, the Mayans,
the Olmec, others
in there, they all
had a myth that they had come
from a previous civilization
that had been
destroyed by cataclysm.
You've heard this before.
They escaped--
>>SCOTT: Something
vaguely familiar.
Yeah.
>>TIMOTHY: They escaped in
boats and came to this area.
In fact, this civilization,
according to them
was known as Atzlan.
Well, it's not too
much of a stretch
to connect Atzlan with Atlantis.
Yes.
And the Nahuatl word
for Itzel really
meant like water wizards.
So there was this
connection there.
Between these
connections and then
there were certain
hand grips that
were being exchanged that the
Templars knew about, that they
had exchanged with the druids.
These were recognized
by the Mayans
who had similar grips,
similar initiation ceremonies.
So they recognized
each other as brothers.
>>SCOTT: So this is a
really important point,
because you're talking
about people previously
that as far as even
they knew, there
was no connection, at least
in memory or anything that
had been written down.
But yet when they
get together, they
have the same hand gestures,
same signs of recognition
that must go back to
pre-Younger Dryas.
>>TIMOTHY: That's exactly right.
>>SCOTT: Atlantis again.
>>TIMOTHY: And you could
try to say, Oh, maybe
a collective consciousness.
But there's too many
exact similarities.
>>SCOTT: Specific things.
>>TIMOTHY: Which suggests
that the same tradition
was being passed down on
both sides of the Atlantic.
>>SCOTT: No question.
>>TIMOTHY: The Templars
had inherited this.
They recognized right
away, hey, we're all
passing on the same tradition.
In fact, the Hopis talked
about before the last shaking
of the Earth that
the great spirit
had given them a
hand grip that they
could recognize each other by.
And as they were
separated, they knew
that if they gave
this hand grip,
they would recognize
each other again.
And so later on when
the Conquistadors
came across the plains,
they met the Hopi.
The Hopi went to give the grip.
And they didn't have it.
>>SCOTT: And they got nothing.
>>TIMOTHY: And they knew
there would be problems.
But when they encountered groups
like the Templars, they had it.
>>SCOTT: OK.
So based on all of this, let's
just stick with the Maya,
and let's just talk about
cultures around the world that
build these amazing
temples that seemingly were
impossible to be built
in the distant past,
but yet here they are.
And what we're finding
archeologists saying
more and more is that
they're pushing the origin
dates back farther and farther.
Now in North America, we
have the Earth mounds.
And we actually have a pyramid,
an earthen pyramid in Cahokia
that has a larger base footprint
than the Great Pyramid of Giza.
>>TIMOTHY: Yeah,
Collinsville, Illinois.
>>SCOTT: Yes.
Along with many
other different types
of mounds at that
amazing city that
was believed to have over
50,000 people living there
around 1,400 AD,
which would have been
about the same size
or even smaller
than London at the same time.
But the prediction
that I want to make
is that there has been some
scientific work done at Monks
Mound, it's called, in Cahokia.
That there's actually stone
work in the center of it.
They've been able to use
certain GPR to document that.
These structures are going
to be older and older.
And they're going
to go back, and I
believe they're going
to predate the Younger
Dryas at about 13,000 years
ago, and maybe even older.
>>TIMOTHY: It's
looking more and more
like a lot of the dates that
archeologists have put for when
these things were built was
actually the date in which they
were restored.
According to the cultures,
this is what they say they did.
We just haven't necessarily
listened to that.
But the Templars listened to it.
They recognized, Oh, Yeah, we
know that to be true from back
in Europe as well.
And then the Templars began
to set up their own artifacts
around North
America to document,
not only create
land claims, which
we think is what the
Kensington Runestone was.
>>SCOTT: That's what it says,
acquisition business/taking up
land from Vinland,
which is the Northeast
coast far to the west.
>>TIMOTHY: So tell me about
some of these other sites that
are established
around North America?
>>SCOTT: Well,
first of all, you're
talking about what I believe
are Templar artifacts,
the Kensington Runestone
being one, dated 1362,
which is 130 years before
Chris who never set foot
on the land we now call the
United States of America that
already had millions
of people living here.
The whole premise of
his discovery of America
is ridiculous.
But this is why
it was dismissed,
because this narrative
was so entrenched.
But we also have things like
the Spirit Pond Runestones
which are three more
Templar artifacts that
are dated 1401 and 1402.
We have the
Narragansett Runestone,
we have the Newark Holy stones,
which actually are Hebrew.
We have the Bat
Creek stone, which
was found in a Cherokee
Burial Mound that
has possibly first
century Paleo-Hebrew
that the Smithsonian Institute
didn't recognize right away.
And so they published
it, but it wasn't
realized that it was
actually Paleo-Hebrew
almost 100 years later.
And of course, what was
their immediate reaction?
Oh, no, no, no, that's a fake.
I mean, there's
something going on here.
But this is just the beginning.
Obviously, I'm known for
the Kensington Runestone,
and I called it a land claim.
It was found on the
North South Continental
Divide of North America.
And that's where you
would put it at that time
if you were placing
a land claim.
But perhaps the most interesting
and fascinating artifacts,
at least in my
opinion, were found
near Tucson, Arizona called
the Tucson-led artifacts.
And those things are
self-dated to the 8th, 9th,
and 10th centuries.
And they are filled with Latin.
They have Hebrew.
They have all kinds
of interesting imagery
that suggests that there was
an ancient Hebrew culture that
came from Europe at that time
probably under persecution
to a place where
they knew that they
would be accepted
and treated well
just like the Templars
did as long as you
gave the proper handshake.
So I think what this means, at
least the way I interpret this,
is that the Americas were really
a sanctuary for the people that
were living in other
parts of the world
when they suffered persecution
for their ideological beliefs,
they knew there was a
place where they could go,
and they would be respected by
people that had like ideology
and welcome them.
>>TIMOTHY: Well, and we
find this also suggested
on the Overton Stone, where you
actually have a Templar cross--
>>SCOTT: In Nova Scotia.
>>TIMOTHY: In Nova Scotia
next to native iconography.
>>SCOTT: Yeah.
Well, there's a feather, right?
There's cross tobacco
leaves, and then there's
a crescent moon.
So I'm sure an Indigenous
person could help us understand
exactly what that message says.
Of course, right next to it
is a Knights of Christ style
Portuguese temple cross.
>>TIMOTHY: Right.
That's exactly right.
>>SCOTT: Well, Tim, I
think it's important
that we make the
point that there's
an ancient tradition
that goes back
to the Atlanteans of
respect of other people,
of those inalienable rights
that everybody is born with.
Signs of recognition.
So you know who
your friends are.
And more importantly,
who your enemies are.
And that's what we
had in North America.
The Indigenous
people embraced that.
The more you learn
about Indigenous people,
the more you realize they've
had it figured out all along,
how to live in balance,
how to live with nature.
And this has to go
back to the Atlanteans.
>>TIMOTHY: And not only
that, but if you recall,
the Templars were trying to
establish a new Atlantis.
And in Francis Bacon's book
later on, The New Atlantis,
he talks about this land where
there's these people that live,
just as you're describing,
and they know the world,
but the world doesn't
know about them.
And this is the
sanctuary for them
to preserve the knowledge
and the tradition.
So the Templars, finding
that they themselves
are being persecuted
throughout Europe,
except for in a few small
places, including Portugal
and Scotland, they found
refuge themselves in this area
that they could then
work with the natives
to build a new system.
>>SCOTT: Well, they knew
all about North America.
They knew about the
Indigenous people.
And they had already
begun to set the table
before the put down in 1307.
So they had an escape
route already set to go.
And this to me, is part of
the brilliance of all this.
And it really just
goes all the way back
like everything does to
this Atlantean culture
that they had rediscovered.
And by the time of
the put down, they
understood what that
tradition was all about.
It was their heritage.
And it was something that
they wanted to continue.
And it wasn't going
to be in Europe,
it wasn't going to be
in the Middle East,
it was going to
be far to the West
to that sanctuary,
that new Atlantis.
>>TIMOTHY: Tell me
about the Newport Tower
and its association
with how does it
connect with these other
monuments and the Kensington
Runestone and the Templars?
>>SCOTT: Well--
>>TIMOTHY: I think,
I mean, I think
if anybody could talk
about it, it's you.
>>SCOTT: Well, getting back
to the Cremona document,
the Newport tower
is all through it.
It's documented on the maps.
It talks about when the
astronomical alignments
were laid out prior
to its construction.
There's also discussion
in the Cremona document
about an agreement with
the Indigenous people
that they would be allowed
to build this structure here.
It was all about mutual respect.
You just didn't come over
here and do as you please.
You sat down with your brothers
and you made an agreement.
But this tower is
absolutely incredible.
It's two stories tall.
It's about 26 fit in diameter.
It's around stone and
mortar structure that
sits on eight round
heavy pillars that
have round Romanesque arches,
and the eight archways that
have capstone ledges that were
designed for structural support
for a first story wooden
ambulatory that went around it.
Now, the current narrative
is this thing is--
I have a hard time saying this
because it's so ridiculous,
a windmill, right?
>>TIMOTHY: No.
>>SCOTT: I mean,
even my son, Grant,
who is a structural engineer
in his early 30s, I asked him.
I said, could this stone
and mortar structure
serve as a windmill?
And he chuckled a little
bit and said, no, dad.
I mean, the lateral forces
would tear it apart.
There's no steel reinforcement.
Forget it.
It couldn't have
been a Windmill,
but yet that's what the
world is being told today.
This was built by the Templars.
And it was used as that
first stake in the ground.
And we know it started
in the latter part
of the 14th century.
The Runestone is also
dated 1362, the latter part
of the 14th century.
And they're
absolutely connected.
And I have to tell you
how they're connected,
literally connected.
And that is there are two
keystones in that tower.
One is egg-shaped, which
is not a coincidence.
The other is a mark
master masons keystone,
a notched keystone.
And they are back to back in
the West Northwest archway.
But they are not
centered in the archway.
No self-respecting medieval
stonemason would do that.
So what does logic tell you?
They did it for a reason.
And when I first went there and
discovered this illumination
event that happens on the
winter solstice-- at 9 o'clock
in the morning, a light
box from the South window
creates a light box that
goes down and frames out
that egg at exactly 9 o'clock.
Now this shadow
play or light play
as it were, is something that
the Templars were known to do
and ancient
traditions were known
to do with standing stone sites
found all around the world
again.
>>TIMOTHY: Even in the
cathedrals themselves.
>>SCOTT: Absolutely.
That's right.
A place called Saint-Sulpice.
>>TIMOTHY: Oh, Yes.
Saint-Sulpice, I've seen
it at Chart cathedral.
>>SCOTT: Charts, Yep.
But probably the
most amazing thing,
the next day I
went outside and I
was looking up at that
keystone on the outside
back to back with the egg.
The only two keystones
in that tower.
And then I turned and
I looked to the west,
and it hit me just like that.
And then I went home,
I went on my computer.
And if you draw a line from
the center of the tower
through the only two
keystones and extend that line
into space, it goes to
Kensington, Minnesota.
Now you can't make
that up, right?
>>TIMOTHY: Correct.
>>SCOTT: Now here's the thing.
I published that in 2009.
And you know and
I both know there
are a lot of people
in this world that
don't like this research,
they don't like Templars,
they don't want any of it.
And don't you think if
those skeptics could
have proven that alignment
wrong that I wouldn't
have heard about it by now?
You know what I've heard?
>>TIMOTHY: Nothing.
>>SCOTT: Crickets.
That is amazing.
>>TIMOTHY: That's right.
So let's talk now about--
we mentioned Christopher
Columbus earlier.
And there's something
really important about him
that I feel like
we need to put out.
Christopher Columbus, he
had his own ambitions.
He began to figure out
that there was probably
something going on, on the
other side of the Atlantic.
There had been whispers that the
Templars had secured artifacts
and had taken them
somewhere else.
So the church had
a vested interest
in trying to find where
these treasures were.
They didn't know that
the Templars had already
made pacts with the tribes on
the other side of the Atlantic
and were securing these
things away and putting them
in secret vaults,
actually, at the time.
But what Columbus did
was he figured out
that the Templars had
something to do with all this.
So he went to the Grand
master's daughter who
was in a convent at the time, he
pulled her out of the convent,
he married her to
secure certain maps
that her father had given her.
Columbus got hold of
these maps, figured out
that there was something
across the water,
and he went to Portugal, the
King of Portugal and said,
hey, fund to go
across the ocean.
King of Portugal was like,
we're not going to fund you.
We already know there's
something on the other.
>>SCOTT: You're not telling
us something we don't know.
>>TIMOTHY: Yeah, Portugal
or Port of the Grail
had been founded by the Templars
as a Templar state initially.
Templars were using
Portugal as a place
to travel back and forth to
the New World from there.
So they said no, we're
not going to help you,
Christopher Columbus.
And so Christopher
Columbus said fine,
and he went to Portugal's
enemy, which was Spain.
Spain was a very
Catholic country.
They had already kicked
the Jews and the Muslims
and other what they believed
were undesirables out
of the country in 1492.
And he went to Queen
Isabella and said fund
to go across the ocean.
I will find your treasure.
I'll find the artifacts.
You will be the hero
of the Roman church.
It'll secure your faith
and secure your country.
So they funded him.
When Christopher Columbus
started to go across the ocean
then, he knew that
there were going
to be people there
who had already
associated with the Templars.
So he had to create a
ruse to be accepted.
So what did he do?
He put giant Templar crosses
on his sails as an announcement
that when he came across,
they would think--
>>SCOTT: I'm back.
>>TIMOTHY: "I'm
one of you guys!"
So they would think
he was a Templar.
And of course, then
he tricked them.
And then from there on,
it was unfortunately
genocide for a lot
of Indigenous people
as they were trying to find
these treasures that had been
brought over by the Templars.
And thank God,
the Native people,
the Indigenous people who
had established these pacts
with the Templars worked
to preserve these artifacts
that the Templars
had brought over,
and that the Templars
still had association with.
Once they discovered that there
was, in fact, this territory
on the other side
of the Atlantic,
and that the Jerusalem treasures
probably were hidden there,
that became the main
focus of the Roman church
to bring in Conquistadors
and Inquisition
to try to secure them.
>>SCOTT: Well, Tim, I think
we've established and made
it very clear that the Templars
had deep spiritual bonds
and connections with
cultures worldwide.
And that their ultimate
mission was in North America
to establish the new Atlantis.
But it was also called
the New Jerusalem.
>>TIMOTHY: Yeah, the
Templars recognized
the divine spark, the divine
flame within everybody.
It allowed them to associate
with these different cultures,
get along with
them, work with them
to establish these new ideas.
And you're right.
They decided they
needed to establish
a new heavenly Jerusalem
or a new Atlantis
in the area of North America.
They began this
task of doing it.
They worked with
the other cultures
to try to establish it.
And their success
in that is still yet
to be determined because
we're still working at it.
>>SCOTT: Oh, that's
a whole other story.
But we'll get to that.
I'm Scott Wolter.
>>TIMOTHY: And
I'm Timothy Hogan.
And thank you for watching
this episode of Mysteries
of the Knights Templar.
[MUSIC PLAYING]